other news now three shootings since
Saturday in the area protesters have
dubbed the Capitol Hill organized
protest zone the police chief and mayor
are now trying to regain control of that
area that is getting national attention
ever since police abandoned the east
precinct protesters have been successful
in holding ground but after three
reports of shooting the question now is
how much longer can this really go on
for the right to challenge authority and
government is fundamental to who we are
as Americans we do not need anyone
including the President to try to so
further divide further distrust and
misinformation the threat to invade
Seattle to divide and incite violence in
our city is not only unwelcome it would
be illegal
straight A's are happy
I've never before my baby told me I will
have to go
I can't be good no more
like I did before
[Music]
and I know
no using word car
[Music]
I can't be good
I can be good baby
[Music]
and just like that Seattle police
retaking control of the East precinct on
Capitol Hill by order of Mayor Jenny
Durkin protesters forced out of the zone
earlier this morning although many of
them are saying it's not over this
morning business owners opening their
doors to all the commotions some
outwardly happy to see demonstrators
leave their streets after weeks of
protest and in some cases violence yeah
from like the 9th of June I've been
writing the city asking them to
straighten us out because as soon as
March downtown poured out up here this
turned into a battlefield right away I
also want to address the protests on
Capitol Hill but first Seattle we are a
passionate City we demand justice we are
at the forefront of change and I will
not allow anyone to distract our city
from the work that has to be done and
will be done Seattle is demanding a
justice system that is actually just and
we know that we will require deep deep
work with community and within our
systems of policing as well as every
other governmental institution we must
continue to reimagine and rethink
policing and how we direct our taxpayer
dollars and how we allocate funds for
law enforcement and for other
community-based programs like education
health care and access to opportunity I
want to talk about what I've been doing
in the last two weeks and what I plan to
continue to do I will continue to meet
with community to listen my focus as
mayor will remain on how we work to make
Seattle a model for addressing the
inequities that the pandemic and these
last two weeks have made impossible to
deny
right to your head you
[Music]
I can be good baby
right now with the SWAT team leading the
way Seattle police returned to the
graffiti riddled East precinct this
morning and walked through the familiar
spaces they were ordered to abandon 23
days ago chop has fallen a half a dozen
city blocks occupied by protesters for
more than three weeks is now in the
hands of Seattle Police taken by force
early Wednesday morning I don't think
anyone's won anything out of this I
think we've actually lost I think we
lost a mayor we've lost the city council
person
we've lost residents we've lost small
businesses we've lost the black lives
matter movement thank you very much
business owner Faizal Khan never closed
but did see his neighbors board up some
even shut down the situation escalating
when a second man a teenager was shot
and killed another wounded the loss of
life for children so worst part of it
just this afternoon in a press
conference the mayor said chop could not
go on any longer over the last two weeks
city departments and SPD under chief
best leadership have been devising a
range of operational plans so late last
night after consulting with chief best
of my other departments I assured an
executive order asking city departments
to work together to address public
health and public safety concerns as
well as the sustained damage to Cal
Anderson Park in the East precinct area
I will continue to refocus our energy on
the hard but critical work to answer the
voices demonstrating and demanding
change I'd like to follow up on what
Hannah was talking about there for the
mayor or for the chief there's
conversation on the ground about moving
the occupation elsewhere
what will the city's response be if
these protesters decide to occupy
elsewhere will you allow them to set up
camp like they did outside the east
bracing as long as there's not that
lawlessness that the chief just
mentioned
so again I want to echo what the chief
said is we strongly support the First
Amendment rights to protest and we have
seen that in Seattle over the last three
weeks where tens of thousands of people
have taken to the streets sometimes in
one March and we will be guided by each
situation as it presents itself we will
support the right of free speech but we
will not support the right of people who
are creating a situation like we had on
Capitol Hill that ended up in violence
and disorder and the way that it did
turn turn turn
[Music]